In the last video,
we started on the inheritance challenge.
In this video, we're gonna go ahead and
we're going to complete my version
of the challenge solution.
So moving on now from the Outlander
class that we've created.
Now, what we're going to do is we're
going to change a few things here,
because this moved to fa,
we've passed fault as the top of gear box,
what means is that is we've decided
on our automatic transmission.
We're gonna create a new method,
which we call accelerate.
Which we pass a parameter of the speed,
and based on that, depending on
the speed the car is traveling at, we're
automatically going to change the gear.
Because, of course,
it is an automatic gearbox.
And then we're obviously going to set
the velocity and the direction as well.
So to do that,
you're going to create a new method.
Call it public void accelerate.
I'm going create, pass,
something called the rate.
Now the rate is the difference
in speed from the current speed.
So what we're going to determine then,
is we're going to look at the new velocity
of the vehicle, or the car in this case.
Which will be the new velocity equals,
we're gonna get the current
velocity of the vehicle,
which is the field essentially that
comes right back from the vehicle class.
They we're gonna add to
that the current rate,
bearing in mind that the rate can be
a positive number or a negative number.
So a positive number would be,
you put your foot down on the accelerator,
you've increased the speed.
And a minus number would mean that you're
decelerating, for want of a better term,
but we're handling all of
this in the one method.
So the new velocity is going to be the new
velocity of the car, taking into account
the change that has happened, or
is being passed to this method.
So if new velocity is equal to zero.
We're gonna call a stop method.
Otherwise we're going to put else,
if new velocity is greater than zero,
and new velocity less than equal to ten,
then we're going to change the gear,
bearing in mind that this is
an automatic transmission.
And we'll just do a few more,
we won't go through and do all six gears.
But what if new velocity
is greater than ten and
new velocity is, say,
less than or equal to 20?
This could miles or kilometers per hour.
Change gear two.
So we're getting the car to automatically
change based on the velocity.
After your velocity is less than or
equal to 30.
You'll see what we're doing here,
change gear three.
And for simplicity,
even though I said there's a six speed,
I'm going to put else.
Change gear four.
So normally you would go through and
you'd actually do the other parameters for
the speeds.
So what we're doing here is we've
created a new method called accelerate.
And depending on what the new speed
is going to be, we're automatically
changing to the relevant gear, which of
course is what a car does automatically.
It knows to change gear, based on
a certain amount of speed or REVS.
And the last thing we need to do is
we need to just do a final test,
if(newVelocity > 0 ),
we wanna change velocity.
We wanna call the changeVelocity to
what the (newVelocity) is going to be.
And we also wanna use
the getCurrentDirection.
So we're still going to
go in the same direction,
all we're doing is we're increasing or
decreasing the speed.
So that's now a method, that you can see,
that's specific to the Outlander.
But then it's changing gears.
But, of course, the change in gear
is based now on the method
that we've defined in the car.
And of course some of the other
features we're using.
Stop method at the moment.
We haven't implemented
the stop method in here.
We've only implemented
the stop method down here.
So what we really should do is,
with the stop method, so
we could create a stop method and
put it in here under the car.
Set the gear o the first gear in
other words, if the car is stopped.
But that wouldn't be appropriate,
because we've decided that we have
a boolean here for isitManual.
So if it's manual, that's a manual
operation to change the gear but
in the case of the Outlander.
We defined that as to be
using an automatic gear box.
So therefore we need to add
the functionality to change the gear,
if it's stopped here in the Outlander,
and not in the car class.
So we're going to put change gear 1.
So in other words, if the car is
stopped it's going to automatically
change the gear for us to first gear.
So that's a very basic solution.
As you can see here that we've come
up with, we've now got three classes.
We got the vehicle class, which is
the base class, the base vehicle class.
We use the car class to extend from that.
And we added these parameters
that are unique for a vehicle.
Wheels, doors, gears, and as to whether
the gearbox was manual or automatic.
And also the current gear,
we're keeping track of what
the current gear is for the car.
And for the Outlander,
of course, we're using that.
We've extended from the car.
The only real difference is
we've added one field here,
which is the number of road service
months that come with a new car.
Could have also added our
own accelerate method,
which is unique to the Outlander
because it's an automatic car.
Or because it has an automatic gearbox,
depending on the gear and
the speed that we're going to be going.
We change the gear box automatically.
So let's try running this now and
see what it looks like.
So I'm gonna create outlander.
Outlander equals view outlander.
And of course the parameters were just
the number of routes or service months, so
we'll say 36 for three years.
But now what we can do is we can
type outlander.accelerate, so
let's accelerate, say,
to 30, and see what happens.
So, let's run that.
Let's make a bit of space here so
we can see what we're doing.
I'll just run it again.
So you can see what's happened is, we have
to find a new object for the Outlander
class, from the Outlander class, and
we've started to accelerate to 30.
So the first thing what happened was,
we set the current gear,
the gear changed to 3, vehicle.move was
called to be moving at 30 in the direction
and the direction is zero because
we haven't defined a direction.
Car change velocity was also executed.
This is where the outputs can
be a little bit confusing,
because we have a look at
the code that was executed.
We gotta look at that Outlander.
It actually met this condition here,
because the speed that we've selected is
greater than 20 and less than equal to 30.
To change gear to three,
then we change velocity.
Of course changeVelocity
is in our car class,
we used a method called changeVelocity.
I guess what we probably should
have done there to make it a little
bit better to read, is we should have
outputed that line first, like so,
and then it'd actually appear in
the right order so we'll do that.
So now it's actually
set in the right order.
So it shows the first thing that
happened was the gear change,
was changed to third gear.
The car changed velocity to 30.
And then it called them,
the actually move method was called
from the base class, base vehicle,
based on this change velocity method which
called the base method from the vehicle.
And we could change this a little bit.
We could go back to our main class and
we could maybe, outLander.accelerate.
Just to see that it's working,
we add another 20.
So that should accumulate to be
a total of 50 that we going at.
So if we run that.
You can see, now, that what happened
the second time after the second call,
changed to fourth gear.
Cuz that was our, if you recall,
that was our else.
We're only handling four
gears in this scenario.
The velocity was actually changed to 50,
because we added 20 at the second call.
Added another 20,
it's maintaining the current velocity, so
it knows the current speed now is 50.
So what we could have probably
done also is just to be.
Make things a little bit clearer,
is we perhaps could have started here, and
we could have put outlander.steer.
We'll could say that we're going
to go at forty-five degrees.
And remember that steer method is
coming all the way, not from here, but
coming all the way from vehicle, because
we haven't overwritten this method.
In the car class or the Outlander class.
So if we run that now,
vehicle.steer you notice now that
the vehicle.steer is now steering at 45
degrees, car changed to third gear and
everything as it is was before.
The only thing different
now is the direction.
And the other thing,
as I mentioned with accelerate,
I can also pass a negative number,
so we're currently doing 50,
outlander.accelerate Let's put
minus 42 and see what happens.
That should take us to eight,
which should probably be first gear.
Let's try that.
So again, you can see what happened was,
we changed down to first gear,
because the speed is now eight, and
we're still moving in the same direction.
So you can see how useful Inheritance is.
And it really gives you lots of
flexibility to model real life objects
in software.
And as you can see it's
also very powerful.
And actually saves you a lot of coding.
You're not having to create the code,
so you can create the code for vehicle.
In this case in car once, and
then for other types of cars.
For example a Porsche, it's very simply
to create to create a new class and
extend the car class.
You've got all this base
functionality built in.
Now what you could have done, because what
we've done with this accelerate here,
we've effectively implemented a method
to change gears automatically,
depending based on the speed.
So we could even have created another
class, or added that elsewhere, so
that functionality was available for
all cars that were automatic.
So there's lots of flexibility
as you can see there.
So I hope that's helped a lot.
That's inheritance, and you'll understand
more of this the more you use it and
it will become a lot more familiar.
So in the next video we're going
to start with composition.
Composition is something that can be
used in place or with inheritance,
and you'll see that theres many
benefits to be using composition,
but we'll start that in the next video.